groovytransforms (or Scalify)
=============================

This is a Groovy [AST Transformation][1] that provides integration of Groovy and Scala code.
It's here because can't be included in Groovy core. Contributions are welcome!


Distribution
============

Source distribution not available at the moment, 
but its binary artifact groovytransforms-<version>.jar is available at JCenter:
[groovytransforms jars](https://bintray.com/smartiniontray/releases/groovytransforms/)
note that there is the usual binary jar, but even sources and javadoc jar are available.


Dependencies
============

These project requires the following runtime dependencies

* Groovy 2.0.0 or higher (recommended at least 2.0.8)
* Scala 2.10.0 or higher (recommended at least 2.10.5 or 2.11.6) if using @Scalify


Description
===========

`@Scalify` simplifies the task of integrating Groovy and Scala code. This
transformation adds the required bytecode to your Groovy classes to make
them appear as native Scala classes. It also helps when implementing or
extending a Scala trait/class from Groovy.


Usage
=====

Place `@Scalify at the class level, example:

    // -- begin scala code
    import scala.reflect.BeanProperty

    trait Output {
       @BeanProperty var output: String
    }
    // -- end Scala code

    // -- begin Groovy code
    import groovyx.transform.Scalify

    @Scalify
    class GroovyOutput implements Output {
       String output
    }
    // -- end Groovy code

When the trait `Output is compiled it will generate bytecode similar to

    public interface Output {
      public abstract void setOutput(java.lang.String);
      public abstract java.lang.String getOutput();
      public abstract void output_$eq(java.lang.String);
      public abstract java.lang.String output();
    }

The first pair of methods is your typical POJO accessors (generated by Scala's
`@BeanProperty`) which Groovy can handle quite well. The second pair of methods
represent Scala's native accessors, these will be written by `@Scalify` (if not
present already in your class definition). Additionally `@Scalify` will make
sure that your class implements `scala.ScalaObject` if it does not already.

One last trick up the sleeve is that `@Scalify` will generate operator friendly
methods, these are the currently supported methods:

| Operator | Groovy          | Scala              |
| -------- | --------------- | ------------------ |
| +        | plus()          | $plus()            |
| -        | minus()         | $minus()           |
| *        | multiply()      | $times()           |
| /        | div()           | $div()             |
| %        | mod()           | $percent()         |
| ^        | xor()           | $up()              |
| &        | and()           | $amp()             |
| \|       | or()            | $bar()             |
| **       | power()         | $times$times()     |
| <<       | leftShift()     | $less$less()       |
| >>       | rightShift()    | $greater$greater() |
| -        | negative()      | unary_$minus()     |
| +        | positive()      | unary_$plus()      |
| ~        | bitwiseNegate() | unary_$tilde()     |

**NOTE : FULL COMPATIBILITY**

While `@Scalify` can generate all the require boilerplate code it cannot (at the
moment) generate a required class attribute (called pickle) that the Scala
compiler uses to gather metadata information about a Scala class. This means you
won't be able to call a property setter using the short notation, in other words

    new GroovyOutput().output = "something"

will result in a compilation error while the following will work

    new GroovyOutput().output_$eq("something")



Installation
============

Use the distribution jar in your project.
Or for example in Grails Projects, add the JCenter repository like the following:

	// jcenter()  // ok in Grails 2.4 or later, so add it manually for now ...
	mavenRepo("http://dl.bintray.com/smartiniontray/releases/")

and then use it with

	compile("org.codehaus.groovy.modules:groovytransforms:$groovytransformsVersion") { transitive = false }


Documentation
=============

Home Page for the project (and sources) on GitHUB:
[groovytransforms](https://github.com/smartiniOnGitHub/groovytransforms/)


License
=======

Licensed under the terms of the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)


Special Thanks
==============
Andres Almiray (aalmiray), original author of this project.


Note
====

None.


[1]: http://www.groovy-lang.org/metaprogramming.html


